content/snippets.md, before:

+++
path =  '/snippets'
date = '2022-01-30'
title =  'Snippets'
+++

### Kubernetes aliases

_*Added: 30-01-2022*_

To be used in the control plane node(s) in a K8s cluster

```
cat << EOF > kubectl_aliases
# Kubectl aliases
alias k=kubectl
alias kg=”k get pods”
alias kks=”k -n kube-system”
alias kgd=”k get deploy”
alias kgn=”k get nodes”
alias kgs=”k get svc”
alias kge=”k get events — sort-by=’.metadata.creationTimestamp’ |tail -8"
complete -F __start_kubectl k
EOF

cat kubectl_aliases >> ~/.bashrc
rm kubectl_aliases

source ~/.bashrc
```

---
### Git: Delete all branches but master

_*Added: 01-02-2022*_

Alias to delete all but master branches (I use zsh, change `~/.zshrc` to `~/.bashrc` if you use bash)

```
echo 'alias gdb="git branch | grep -v "master" | xargs git branch -D"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

> I read it as *gbd* (git branches delete)

---

### Delete corrupted pods

_*Added: 02-02-2022*_

Deletes all pods from all namespaces marked as `Failed, Evicted` or `Pending`

```
kubectl get pods -A | grep Evicted | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod

kubectl get pods -A | grep Failed | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod

kubectl get pods -A | grep Pending | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod
```

---

### Find Large files in Linux

_*Added: 12-02-2022*_

Find large files in Linux

```
sudo find / -xdev -type f -size +100M
```

---

### Clean systemd journal logs 

_*Added: 12-02-2022*_

Clean (vacuum) /var/log/journal logs (produced by systemd)

```
# Check space used
du -hs /var/log/journal/

# Clean logs older than 1 day
sudo journalctl --vacuum-time=1d
```

### Download SSL cert from website with openssl

_*Added: 14-02-2022*_

Save leaf/server cert to `/tmp/$SERVERNAME.cert`. Use `-showcerts` to download all certs in the chain. `echo -n` gives a response to the server so that connection is released

```
echo -n | openssl s_client -connect $HOST:$PORTNUMBER -servername $SERVERNAME | openssl x509 > /tmp/$SERVERNAME.cert
```

---
### Configure git cache 

_*Added: 17-02-2022*_

To avoid having to type your password/PAT all the time for HTTPS

```
# After you've entered the user password/PAT
git config --global credential.helper cache
```

---

### Convert squid proxy logs to timestamps

_*Added: 02-06-2022*_

To convert unix.centiseconds timestamp to a more readable format

```
cat access.log | perl -p -e 's/^([0-9]*)/"[".localtime($1)."]"/e'
```

---

### Aliases to get kubernetes resources (nodes)
_*Added: 15-08-2022*_

To get CPU/Mem requests/limits from the Kubernetes nodes

```
alias k8snoderesources='kubectl get nodes --no-headers | awk '\''{print $1}'\'' | xargs -I {} sh -c '\''echo {} ; kubectl describe node {} | grep Allocated -A 5 | grep -ve Event -ve Allocated -ve percent -ve -- ; echo '\'''
```

---

#### Alias to get kubernetes resources (cpu/mem)
_*Added: 15-08-2022*_

To get CPU/Mem requests/limits from the Kubernetes pods

```
alias k8spodresources='kubectl get po --all-namespaces -o=jsonpath="{range .items[*]}{.metadata.namespace}:{.metadata.name}{'\n'}{range .spec.containers[*]}  {.name}:{.resources.requests}{'\n'}{end}{'\n'}{end}"'
```

---

#### Interactive debug pod for Kubernetes
_*Added: 19-08-2022*_

Creates an ephemeral pod based on busybox (image can be anything) that will die on exit

```
kubectl run -i --tty --rm debug --image=busybox --restart=Never -- sh
```

---

### SSH Tunnel
_*Added: 24-08-2022*_

Create a ssh tunnel through a jump box / bastion host

On terminal 1
```
 ssh -i <BASTION_KEY> -N -L <PORT_TO_BIND_LOCALLY>:<HOST_ACCESSIBLE_FROM_BASTION>:<PORT_TO_LISTEN_FROM_BASTION> <USER>@<BASTION_HOST_IP_OR_DNS>
```

Keep this one open. This will tunnel the service at the specified port through SSH

On terminal 2 (check connection)
```
nc -vz localhost <PORT_TO_BIND_LOCALLY>
```

---

### Get K8s resources from multiple namespaces
_*Added: 12-09-2022*_

Get kubernetes resources from multiple namespaces

```
eval 'kubectl --namespace='{ns1, ns2}' get pod;'
```

---

### Remove finalizers from CRDs and K8s resources
_*Added: 22-09-2022*_

Remove all finalizer objects that block CRDs and K8s native resources from being terminanted

```
kubectl patch <RESOURCE> <NAME>  --type json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/finalizers"}]';
```

---

### Use ProxyJump with SSH/SCP
_*Added: 05-10-2022*_

Use a Jump machine (bastion host) to copy a file or connect

```
# Copy locally using JumpHost
scp -o 'ProxyJump <JUMP_HOST_USER>@<JUMP_HOST>' -i <END_HOST_KEY> <END_HOST_USER>@<END_HOST>:~/file .


# Connect using JumpHost
ssh -J <JUMP_HOST_USER>@<JUMP_HOST> -i <END_HOST_KEY> <END_HOST_USER>@<END_HOST>
```

---

### Re-tag an existing AWS ECR Image using AWS cli
_*Added: 17-10-2022*_

Use a different tag on the same AWS ECR Docker image using AWS cli

```
# Get ECR Image manifest
MANIFEST=$(aws ecr batch-get-image --repository-name <REPO_NAME> --image-ids imageTag=<OLD_TAG> --query 'images[].imageManifest' --output text)

# Put new manifest (new tag)
aws ecr put-image --repository-name <REPO_NAME> --image-tag <NEW_TAG> --image-manifest "$MANIFEST" 
```

---

### Common PSQL commands
_*Added: 26-10-2022*_


1. Grant CONNECT to the database:

`GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE database_name TO username;`

2. Grant USAGE on schema:

`GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

3. Grant on all tables for DML statements: SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE:

`GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`


4. Grant all privileges on all tables in the schema:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

5. Grant all privileges on all sequences in the schema:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL SEQUENCES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

6. Grant all privileges on the database:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE database_name TO username;`

7. Grant permission to create database:

`ALTER USER username CREATEDB;`

8. Make a user superuser:

`ALTER USER myuser WITH SUPERUSER;`

9. Remove superuser status:

`ALTER USER username WITH NOSUPERUSER;`

Those statements above only affect the current existing tables. To apply to newly created tables, you need to use alter default. For example:

```
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
FOR USER username
IN SCHEMA schema_name
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON TABLES TO username;
```

---

Commit message:

Add deployment restart one-liner

content/snippets.md, after:

+++
path =  '/snippets'
date = '2022-01-30'
title =  'Snippets'
+++

### Kubernetes aliases

_*Added: 30-01-2022*_

To be used in the control plane node(s) in a K8s cluster

```
cat << EOF > kubectl_aliases
# Kubectl aliases
alias k=kubectl
alias kg=”k get pods”
alias kks=”k -n kube-system”
alias kgd=”k get deploy”
alias kgn=”k get nodes”
alias kgs=”k get svc”
alias kge=”k get events — sort-by=’.metadata.creationTimestamp’ |tail -8"
complete -F __start_kubectl k
EOF

cat kubectl_aliases >> ~/.bashrc
rm kubectl_aliases

source ~/.bashrc
```

---
### Git: Delete all branches but master

_*Added: 01-02-2022*_

Alias to delete all but master branches (I use zsh, change `~/.zshrc` to `~/.bashrc` if you use bash)

```
echo 'alias gdb="git branch | grep -v "master" | xargs git branch -D"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

> I read it as *gbd* (git branches delete)

---

### Delete corrupted pods

_*Added: 02-02-2022*_

Deletes all pods from all namespaces marked as `Failed, Evicted` or `Pending`

```
kubectl get pods -A | grep Evicted | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod

kubectl get pods -A | grep Failed | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod

kubectl get pods -A | grep Pending | awk '{print $1}' | xargs kubectl delete pod
```

---

### Find Large files in Linux

_*Added: 12-02-2022*_

Find large files in Linux

```
sudo find / -xdev -type f -size +100M
```

---

### Clean systemd journal logs 

_*Added: 12-02-2022*_

Clean (vacuum) /var/log/journal logs (produced by systemd)

```
# Check space used
du -hs /var/log/journal/

# Clean logs older than 1 day
sudo journalctl --vacuum-time=1d
```

### Download SSL cert from website with openssl

_*Added: 14-02-2022*_

Save leaf/server cert to `/tmp/$SERVERNAME.cert`. Use `-showcerts` to download all certs in the chain. `echo -n` gives a response to the server so that connection is released

```
echo -n | openssl s_client -connect $HOST:$PORTNUMBER -servername $SERVERNAME | openssl x509 > /tmp/$SERVERNAME.cert
```

---
### Configure git cache 

_*Added: 17-02-2022*_

To avoid having to type your password/PAT all the time for HTTPS

```
# After you've entered the user password/PAT
git config --global credential.helper cache
```

---

### Convert squid proxy logs to timestamps

_*Added: 02-06-2022*_

To convert unix.centiseconds timestamp to a more readable format

```
cat access.log | perl -p -e 's/^([0-9]*)/"[".localtime($1)."]"/e'
```

---

### Aliases to get kubernetes resources (nodes)
_*Added: 15-08-2022*_

To get CPU/Mem requests/limits from the Kubernetes nodes

```
alias k8snoderesources='kubectl get nodes --no-headers | awk '\''{print $1}'\'' | xargs -I {} sh -c '\''echo {} ; kubectl describe node {} | grep Allocated -A 5 | grep -ve Event -ve Allocated -ve percent -ve -- ; echo '\'''
```

---

#### Alias to get kubernetes resources (cpu/mem)
_*Added: 15-08-2022*_

To get CPU/Mem requests/limits from the Kubernetes pods

```
alias k8spodresources='kubectl get po --all-namespaces -o=jsonpath="{range .items[*]}{.metadata.namespace}:{.metadata.name}{'\n'}{range .spec.containers[*]}  {.name}:{.resources.requests}{'\n'}{end}{'\n'}{end}"'
```

---

#### Interactive debug pod for Kubernetes
_*Added: 19-08-2022*_

Creates an ephemeral pod based on busybox (image can be anything) that will die on exit

```
kubectl run -i --tty --rm debug --image=busybox --restart=Never -- sh
```

---

### SSH Tunnel

_*Added: 24-08-2022*_

Create a ssh tunnel through a jump box / bastion host

On terminal 1
```
 ssh -i <BASTION_KEY> -N -L <PORT_TO_BIND_LOCALLY>:<HOST_ACCESSIBLE_FROM_BASTION>:<PORT_TO_LISTEN_FROM_BASTION> <USER>@<BASTION_HOST_IP_OR_DNS>
```

Keep this one open. This will tunnel the service at the specified port through SSH

On terminal 2 (check connection)
```
nc -vz localhost <PORT_TO_BIND_LOCALLY>
```

---

### Get K8s resources from multiple namespaces

_*Added: 12-09-2022*_

Get kubernetes resources from multiple namespaces

```
eval 'kubectl --namespace='{ns1, ns2}' get pod;'
```

---

### Remove finalizers from CRDs and K8s resources

_*Added: 22-09-2022*_

Remove all finalizer objects that block CRDs and K8s native resources from being terminanted

```
kubectl patch <RESOURCE> <NAME>  --type json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/finalizers"}]';
```

---

### Use ProxyJump with SSH/SCP

_*Added: 05-10-2022*_

Use a Jump machine (bastion host) to copy a file or connect

```
# Copy locally using JumpHost
scp -o 'ProxyJump <JUMP_HOST_USER>@<JUMP_HOST>' -i <END_HOST_KEY> <END_HOST_USER>@<END_HOST>:~/file .


# Connect using JumpHost
ssh -J <JUMP_HOST_USER>@<JUMP_HOST> -i <END_HOST_KEY> <END_HOST_USER>@<END_HOST>
```

---

### Re-tag an existing AWS ECR Image using AWS cli

_*Added: 17-10-2022*_

Use a different tag on the same AWS ECR Docker image using AWS cli

```
# Get ECR Image manifest
MANIFEST=$(aws ecr batch-get-image --repository-name <REPO_NAME> --image-ids imageTag=<OLD_TAG> --query 'images[].imageManifest' --output text)

# Put new manifest (new tag)
aws ecr put-image --repository-name <REPO_NAME> --image-tag <NEW_TAG> --image-manifest "$MANIFEST" 
```

---

### Common PSQL commands
_*Added: 26-10-2022*_


1. Grant CONNECT to the database:

`GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE database_name TO username;`

2. Grant USAGE on schema:

`GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

3. Grant on all tables for DML statements: SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE:

`GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`


4. Grant all privileges on all tables in the schema:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

5. Grant all privileges on all sequences in the schema:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL SEQUENCES IN SCHEMA schema_name TO username;`

6. Grant all privileges on the database:

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE database_name TO username;`

7. Grant permission to create database:

`ALTER USER username CREATEDB;`

8. Make a user superuser:

`ALTER USER myuser WITH SUPERUSER;`

9. Remove superuser status:

`ALTER USER username WITH NOSUPERUSER;`

Those statements above only affect the current existing tables. To apply to newly created tables, you need to use alter default. For example:

```
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
FOR USER username
IN SCHEMA schema_name
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON TABLES TO username;
```

---

### Restart ALL deployments in a namespace in K8s

_*Added: 17-11-2022*_

```
for svc in $(k get deploy --no-headers | awk '{print $1}'); do kubectl rollout restart deploy $svc; done
```
